# Corda Network Maintenance and Service Level Handbook

This document is correct as of 1 April 2021.


## Contents

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
  - [1.1. Pre-Production Network Assumptions](#11-pre-production-network-assumptions)
  - [1.2. Production Network Assumptions](#12-production-network-assumptions)
- [2. Service Levels](#2-service-levels)
  - [2.1. Availability](#21-availability)
    - [2.1.1. Identity Manager](#211-identity-manager)
    - [2.1.2. Network Map Service](#212-network-map-service)
    - [2.1.3. Notary Service](#213-notary-service)
  - [2.2. Performance](#22-performance)
    - [2.2.1. Identity Manager](#221-identity-manager)
    - [2.2.2. Network Map Service](#222-network-map-service)
    - [2.2.3. Notary Service](#223-notary-service)
  - [2.3. Exclusions](#23-exclusions)
- [3. Maintenance](#3-maintenance)
  - [3.1. Ongoing Maintenance](#31-ongoing-maintenance)
  - [3.2. Emergency Maintenance](#32-emergency-maintenance)
  - [3.3. Network Parameter Updates](#33-network-parameter-updates)
  - [3.4. Scheduled Downtime](#34-scheduled-downtime)
- [4. Business Continuity](#4-business-continuity)
  - [4.1. Backups](#41-backups)
  - [4.2. Data Retention](#42-data-retention)
  - [4.3. Recovery Time Objective](#43-recovery-time-objective)
  - [4.4. Recovery Point Objective](#44-recovery-point-objective)
- [5. Service Credits](#5-service-credits)
  - [5.1. Production Network](#51-production-network)
  - [5.2. Pre-Production Network](#52-pre-production-network)
- [6. Change Communication](#6-change-communication)
  - [6.1. R3 Initiated Change Communication Table](#61-r3-initiated-change-communication-table)
  - [6.2. Participant Initiated Change Communication Table](#62-participant-initiated-change-communication-table)
  - [6.3. Amendments to Maintenance and Support Level Handbook](#63-amendments-to-maintenance-and-support-level-handbook) 
  



## 1. Introduction

This Maintenance and Service Level Handbook contains information on the maintenance of the Corda Network and Services and service levels for Services provided to you (“participant” or “you”) by R3 LLC (“R3”) pursuant to the terms of use (“Terms of Use”) entered into between you and R3. This handbook does not replace or amend in any way the contractual terms and conditions of the Terms of Use. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Terms of Use.

This Maintenance and Service Level Handbook applies to the Pre-Production Network and Production Network, and not to any other environments operated by R3. 


### 1.1. Pre-Production Network Assumptions

- The Pre-Production Network is intended for testing of functionally complete and tested CorDapps in realistic network settings. The Pre-Production Network is not intended for participants’ full test cycles; it is expected that the majority of CorDapp testing will occur in other network configurations prior to testing on the Pre-Production Network.
- R3 reserves the right to delete test data from the Pre-Production Network on the completion of testing.

### 1.2. Production Network Assumptions

- The Production Network is intended for functionally complete CorDapps that have been fully tested in realistic network settings. The Production Network is not intended for any CorDapp testing activity.


## 2. Service Levels

### 2.1. Availability

#### 2.1.1. Identity Manager

The Identity Manager is considered available if it can successfully receive requests for new Participation Certificates submitted for the Corda Network. This is measured by monitoring the service endpoint to ensure a valid status code is returned and checking that the underlying worker process is running.

**Production Network:** The Identity Manager will operate with >99% availability during Normal Business Hours during each calendar month. “Normal Business Hours” are from Sunday 23:00 (GMT) to Friday 23:00 (GMT).

**Pre-Production Network:** The Identity Manager will operate with at least 99% availability during UK Business Hours during each calendar month. “UK Business Hours” means 08:30 UTC+0 to 17:30 UTC+0 during Business Days (as calculated solely in the Office’s City of UK, and not New York or Singapore).


#### 2.1.2. Network Map Service

The Network Map Service is considered available if it is able to provide a network map upon request. This is measured by monitoring the service endpoint to return a valid status code and checking that the underlying worker process is running.

**Production Corda Network:** The Network Map Service will operate with >99% availability during Normal Business Hours during each calendar month.

**Pre-Production Corda Network:** The Network Map Service will operate with at least 99% availability during UK Business Hours during each calendar month.



#### 2.1.3. Notary Service

The Notary Service is considered available if it can successfully receive, process and notarize transactions. This is measured by monitoring R3 internal test transactions to ensure they are being received and processed as expected by the Notary.

**Production Network:** The Notary Service will operate with >99% availability on a 24/7 basis during each calendar month.

**Pre-Production Network:** The Notary Service will operate with at least 99% availability during UK Business Hours during each calendar month.


### 2.2. Performance

#### 2.2.1. Identity Manager

The completion of a Participation Certificate signing request (“CSR”) is measured from the time of receipt of a correctly formatted signing request by the Identity Manager to the time at which a response is submitted to the requesting Corda Network Node.

At least 95% of valid CSRs will be completed within two (2) Business Days during each calendar month, excluding time during which responses to confirmation or clarification requests from R3 are pending. This applies both for the Pre-Production Network and Production Network. “Business Day” means any day except (a) a Saturday or a Sunday in any Office’s City, (b) any other day on which commercial banking institutions based in any Office’s City are authorized or directed by applicable law to close, or (c) any bank holiday in any Office’s City. “Office’s City” means London, New York and Singapore.

The Identity Manager may reject a CSR if the data is not constructed according to the standards set out in the Corda Network Rulebook. Amended CSRs will be subject to the same service levels as new CSRs.

#### 2.2.2. Network Map Service

The Network Map Service regularly signs the network map to reflect the latest updates on the Pre-Production Network and Production Network; examples include the registration of a new Corda Network Node, or a Corda Network Node changing its IP address. As such, Network Map Service performance is measured by how frequently a network map is signed successfully.

At least 95% of Network Map Service signing events on the Pre-Production Network and Production Network will be completed successfully each calendar month.

#### 2.2.3. Notary Service

The completion time for transaction notarization requests is measured from the time the inbound request is received by the Notary Service to the point at which the outbound reply leaves the Notary Service. This metric assumes that correctly formatted and structured notarization requests are received only.

Notarization requests are treated individually, in sequence of receipt, by the Notary working from an inbound queue.

**Production Network:** The average time taken to process notarization requests as measured over a five (5)-minute interval will be <240 seconds for 99% of each calendar month.

**Pre-Production Network:** The average time taken to process notarisation requests as measured over a five (5)-minute interval will be <240 seconds for at least 95% of each calendar month.


*\*Each five-minute interval for measuring notarisation requests is approximate. Each interval is distinct, with a new five-minute measurement interval beginning once the previous one ends. Measurements are not taken as a five-minute rolling average. This means there are approximately 12 measured intervals per hour.*

### 2.3. Exclusions

Exclusions to the service levels set forth in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 include:

- Network connectivity problems or hardware/software failure outside of R3’s control affecting the connectivity of participant Corda Network Node(s) to the Corda Network or Services.
- Any scheduled maintenance and/or emergency maintenance.
- Issues resulting from errors and/or bugs in participant’s software or hardware.
- Security incidents outside of R3’s control, such as a result of participant actions, zero-day software or hardware vulnerabilities or as a result of participant’s security testing as permitted by R3.
- Any service unavailability or degradation due to R3’s suspension of participant’s right to use the Services in accordance with the Terms of Use.
- Failed transactions as a result of participant misconfigurations, such as incorrectly specified identities, addresses and hostnames for either participant Corda Network Nodes or the Corda Network Nodes of transacting counterparties.
- Any service levels affected due to participant’s failure to install a minimum platform version and/or any Network Parameter Updates. “Network Parameter Updates” are those network parameters as communicated to participant by R3 from time to time that set forth the common network wide parameters to which all participants on the Corda Network must adhere.


## 3. Maintenance

Any necessary maintenance to the infrastructure of the Corda Network is communicated via the Service Dashboard, which will automatically send notifications for the scheduling and progress of each change to participant via the Node Operator Email unless alternative contact details are provided. “Service Dashboard” means a dashboard where Corda Network infrastructure-related changes that impact participants will be communicated by R3, currently located at StatusPage (and which may be moved from time to time), and access to which is provided to participants during their onboarding process. “Node Operator Email” means the email address of the Corda Network Node operator located in the node configuration file (“node.conf”).

For any Network Parameter Updates for the Corda Network which would require action from participant, R3 will provide advance notice via the Dashboard as soon as practicable. Minimum notice periods for Network Parameter Updates on Corda Network are summarized in the Change Communication Table in Section 6. Any changes that impact system downtime will be subject to the process outlined in the ‘Scheduled Downtime’ section within this handbook.

### 3.1. Ongoing Maintenance

Regular maintenance is required to provide for the ongoing performance, stability, and security of Corda Network. Small, low-risk platform changes to Services that are non-service impacting are deployed as often as required (“Ongoing Maintenance”). Accordingly, R3 will not communicate any Ongoing Maintenance to participant, and such Ongoing Maintenance shall not be posted on the Service Dashboard.


### 3.2. Emergency Maintenance

On occasion, emergency maintenance may be required in response to a real or perceived vulnerability, security threat or unexpected service disruption. Emergency maintenance will be communicated as soon as practicable via the Service Dashboard.

### 3.3. Network Parameter Updates

The Corda Network uses a common set of network-wide parameters to which each Corda Network Node must adhere. On occasion these network parameters need updating to ensure the continued smooth operation of the Corda Network.

Network Parameter Updates will be required whenever the following scenarios occur:

- A new Notary is added to the environment; this results in updating the allowed **notaries**.
- The **maxTransactionSize** and / or **maxMessageSize** is increased.
- The network **epoch** value is increased.
- The **eventHorizon** is changed(i.e.,the amount of timea Corda Network Node can be uncontactable before being retired from the Corda Network).
- Where **whitelistedContractImplementations** are changed.
- The **minimumPlatformVersion** is upgraded (subject to prior three (3) month notice, as set forth below).


In the event that a Network Parameter Update is necessary, a restart of the specific Service will be required during a specified time window, which will be defined on the Service Dashboard, to provide the continued operation of the Service using the new network parameters.

Network Parameter Updates are scheduled for the Corda Network once per quarter. These update windows are scheduled a quarter in advance, and their contents will be advertised at least **ten (10) Business Days** in advance via the Service Dashboard.

The update process incorporates a Corda Network Node polling activity so that all Corda Network Node operators see the requested changes in advance and can choose to accept/not accept. R3 will consult with the participant that raised the request should there be disagreement over the proposed changes.

**Updating Minimum Platform Version**

- R3 will communicate a minimum of **three (3) calendar months** in advance of the need to update the minimum platform version of the Corda Software via the Service Dashboard. Participants may be invited to test the updates in a separate environment.
- In the event of issues arising in connection with participant’s upgrade of the Corda Software on its Corda Network Node, such issues will be addressed in accordance with the Corda Network Support Handbook. Please contact info@corda.network if you do not have a copy of the most up to date version.

**Participant-requested Network Parameter Change**

Participants may request Network Parameter Updates, provided such request should be made no less than **twenty (20) Business Days** in advance of the scheduled quarterly window via the Support Portal. The “Support Portal” is a web portal that provides an interface to the Jira Cloud for participants to raise tickets for support services. Any Network Parameter Updates shall be implemented at R3’s sole discretion.


### 3.4. Scheduled Downtime

Any scheduled maintenance of the Services shall be notified by R3 a minimum of **one (1) calendar month** in advance of the planned maintenance via the Service Dashboard. Any scheduled maintenance shall be excluded from the calculation of service levels pursuant to this handbook.

## 4. Business Continuity

The Corda Network has a disaster recovery policy which is reviewed and tested regularly. This is in addition to a security policy incorporating specific security incident management procedures to provide business continuity in the event of an unexpected incident or system failure.


### 4.1. Backups

Regular backups are taken in line with R3’s disaster recovery targets for the Services.

### 4.2. Data Retention

The data retention policy for the Production Network is as follows:

- Participant Data in the Production Network will be held by participant Corda Network Nodes and the Production Network databases supporting the Services.
- Upon termination of the Terms of Use, R3 shall remove such data held in its own databases; provided if participant would like R3 to retain such data, participant shall provide R3 with notice at least **thirty (30) days** prior to such termination, and such retention may be subject to additional fees and a separate agreement to be entered into between R3 and participant. Any retention of data shall be agreed upon at R3’s sole discretion.

### 4.3. Recovery Time Objective

Recovery time objective (“RTO”) is defined as the point at which the affected Service is either:

- Fully operational and able to interact with the rest of the Pre-Production Network and Production Network, as applicable, as it did before the incident; or
- A temporary workaround has been applied to restore the affected Service, although further changes may be required to implement a permanent resolution.

RTO is measured from the time R3 confirms that Service recovery is required, until the Service is restored.

RTO applies **when a disaster is declared by R3** and the Services are not available to be operated.

In the event of a failure of the following Services, the RTO from the point of detection (within Normal Business Hours) will be four (4) hours in the Production Network and eight (8) hours in the Pre- Production Network:

- Identity Manager
- Network Map Service
 
The Identity Manager’s primary function is to issue and revoke Participation Certificates, and it does not usually interact with Corda Network Nodes that have already been accepted onto the Corda Network. In addition, each live Corda Network Node on the Corda Network retains a cached version of the network map and can continue to interact with other active Corda Network Nodes during any Service recovery operations.

The RTO excludes any time required for participants to complete required actions as a part of any Incident (as defined in the Corda Network Support Handbook) resolution steps i.e., if a Network Parameter Update is required as a part of Service recovery, and participants are required to accept these updates on their Corda Network Nodes to restore connectivity to the Corda Network. During any such Incident, regular updates will be posted by R3 to the Service Dashboard.


### 4.4. Recovery Point Objective

Recovery point objective (“RPO”) is defined as the maximum point-in-time that the Services will be recovered to, measured from the time that the failure occurred. RPO is measured as the time delta between the point-in-time that data is recovered to and the time R3 identified a Service failure as occurring.

RPO applies **only once a disaster is declared by the R3 team.**

In the event of a failure of the following Services (on either the Pre-Production Network or Production Network), the RPO will be one (1) hour from the point of failure:
  
- Identity Manager
- Network Map Service

In the event of a failure of the following Services, the RPO will be twenty-four (24) hours from the point of failure:

- Notary Service
 

## 5. Service Credits

### 5.1. Production Network

In the event of service level breaches impacting participants, participant will be entitled to a service credit as set forth below.

Multiple breaches cannot be claimed against a single Service target within the same measurement interval.


| Number of breaches                 | Service Credit                    |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| >9 and <20 within a calendar year  | 25% of fees for affected service  |
| >19 and <40 within a calendar year | 50% of fees for affected service  |
| >39 within a calendar year         | 100% of fees for affected service |


**How are service credits recorded and distributed?**

R3 aims to provide monthly service level reporting to participants via an email to the Node Operator Email unless R3 and participant agree otherwise. Reporting will not be participant specific and will not include any identifiable participant details.

To request a service credit, participants must raise a service credit request via emailing info@corda.network, providing reasonable evidence of a breach in writing. Requests must be submitted within two (2) calendar months after the end of a calendar year.

### 5.2. Pre-Production Network

Service credits will not apply for the Pre-Production Network.
R3 will not distribute monthly service level reports for the Pre-Production Network.

## 6. Change Communication 


### 6.1. R3 Initiated Change Communication Table



| CLAUSE                          | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                       |    NOTICE & CHANNEL   (communicated via Service Dashboard)                                                                            |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Emergency Maintenance (3.2)     | Response to a real or perceived vulnerability, security threat or unexpected service disruption                                   | **ASAP**                                                                                                             |
| Network Parameter Updates (3.3) | 1. Non-service impacting changes <br>2. Significant customer action required                                                          | 1. Min **10 business days**; quarterly schedule via Service Dashboard   <br>2. Min **3 calendar months** via Service Dashboard |
| Scheduled Downtime (3.4)        | Upgrades require a period of service impacting scheduled downtime                                                                 | Min **1 calendar month**                                                                                             |



 ### 6.2. Participant Initiated Change Communication Table  
 
                                                                                                    
| CLAUSE                          | DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                       |    NOTICE & CHANNEL (communicated via Support Portal)                                                                                 |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Network Parameter Updates (3.3.)  | Production Network participant requests                                                                   | Min **20 business days**  before scheduled quarterly window                                                                             |
| Data Retention (4.2)              | Requests for R3 to retain any customer data held in its databases after the end of the Agreement period.              | **30 calendar days** notice from participant                                                                                                                     |


### 6.3. Amendments to Maintenance and Support Level Handbook

R3 retains the right to amend this Corda Network Maintenance and Service Level Handbook.

If R3 determines that changes to this handbook may result in material degradation of existing Services, R3 will inform participants no less than **one (1) calendar month** prior to implementing the change via the Node Operator Email (or another email address as may be agreed upon between R3 and participant in writing).
