# Operational Practices

## Introduction

R3 has established an information security management program (ISMP) describing the principles, and basic rules for how we maintain security. We accomplish this by continually evaluating risks to our operations and improving the security, integrity, and availability of Corda Network. We regularly review and update security policies, perform testing of our environments, and monitor compliance with security policies.
 

Below is a list and short description of some of our major Security & Technology policies that R3 has put in place for our internal & cloud environments related to Corda Network. 

 

### Acceptable Use

This policy requires that all employees' and associates' use of ICT resources in R3’s workplace is conducted in a manner that is lawful, responsible and takes into account the needs of R3 and its clients. It applies to employees and contractors, consultants, temporaries, and other workers at R3, including all personnel affiliated with third parties. The intention of this policy is not to impose restrictions that are contrary to R3’s established culture of innovation, openness and trust. Such a culture does, however, depend on a common understanding of what constitutes “acceptable use” at R3.

 

### Access Control and User Access Management

The purpose of this policy is to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, to protect the Corda Network’s reputation, to ensure the effective delivery of services to network participants and to meet contractual commitments by ensuring that access control requirements are appropriately defined. This policy documents the principles that govern the provision of access to sensitive Corda Network systems and information, and the uses to which they may be put. Access will be granted in accordance with minimum necessary required by the role of the individual or system requiring access.

 

### Back-up and Restore

In this context, 'backup' refers to the capture of point-in-time snapshots of the state of data within a component, whilst 'restore' refers to the reconstitution of the state of a component to be consistent to a backup snapshot. The frequency of required backups for any component are determined by the defined Recovery Point Objective for that component. The operations team is responsible for ensuring the software vendor defines and documents an appropriate RPO for each component. The operations team is responsible for controlling the frequency of execution of backup procedures (see below) in accordance with specified RPOs.

 

### Change Management

R3 applies controlled processes to the creation and modification of all infrastructure and applications supporting Corda Network. In this context, 'change' describes any modification to the scope or configuration or hardware and/or software components supporting Corda Network. This includes:

Creation of a new Corda Network environment

Deployment of new hardware or software components into a Corda Network environment

Deployment of updates and patches to Corda Network components

 

### Configuration

The Corda Network comprises a complex technology stack which is likely to continue to grow in scale and complexity over time. Changes to Corda Network components (governed by the Change Management Policy) are likely to occur frequently, creating risk of disruption or otherwise inconsistent performance of Corda Network services over time. This policy seeks to mitigate these risks by ensuring that changes in configuration are co-ordinated over time.

 

### Cryptographic Material

R3 must manage all operationally-sensitive cryptographic material in a secure and controlled manner. This policy outlines provisions for secure generation, storage and access control of cryptographic material in relation to Corda Network. It follows the policies on Access Control and Infrastructure Management. In the context of this document, cryptographic material refers to any information which may be used to assert ownership of an identity using cryptographic means. This primarily relates to private ("signing") keys used in public key cryptography. Identities of relevance to this policy include (but are not limited to) those used for the Corda Network certificate authority ("Identity Manager").

 

### Deployment

This is the policy for the deployment of software components by R3 onto physical infrastructure for Corda Network. All deployment activity shall be undertaken in accordance with change management procedures defined in the Change Management Policy. The Operations team should maintain standard deployment procedures for common tasks (e.g. deploying a new Notary VM). Wherever possible, deployment procedures shall be executed via an automation tool or combination of tools. 

 

### Emergency Access

Emergency access may be required in order to execute an emergency change as defined in the Change Management Policy. Such scenarios imply immediate, critical operational or reputational risk to the Foundation, sufficient to justify bypassing normal procedures. This may include responding to cyber-attacks, rolling back changes causing severe network disruption, etc. All emergency access is subject to the Access Control Policy.

 

### Environments

In line with standard practice, R3 has implemented a series of controlled Network environments for both internal and external use. This document outlines the constraints within which environments are to be defined, implemented and managed on an on-going basis. Each environment shall have an explicit name which distinguishes it from all other environments. The name shall follow a consistent convention which allows its context to be easily identified

 

### Incident Response 

A computer security incident is any real, suspected or imminent threat of compromise of the security of data or systems. Computer security incident response is a part of the day to day business activities of R3. This document defines the R3’s policy for reporting, prioritising and managing the response to such incidents. This policy applies to employees and contractors, consultants, temporaries, and other workers at R3, or its Operator(s), including all personnel affiliated with third parties.

 

### Information Classification

The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all sensitive Corda Network information and systems are appropriately classified, based on their importance to R3. This classification must accurately reflect the impact that might result from any information or system loss, corruption, misappropriation or unavailability. Access controls are applied in a manner that considers contractual, legal and regulatory obligations and is appropriate to the sensitivity of the information and systems under consideration.

 

### Inventory Management

This document describes R3’s approach to the management of IT assets in relation to Corda Network. Specifically, it describes methods for proper acquisition, installation, handling, tracking and disposal of IT assets to meet defined requirements. Requirements include ensuring adherence to company and industry standards, ensuring consistency throughout R3, and conforming to customer, legal, and regulatory requirements.

 

### Organisation of Information Security

The objectives of this policy are to ensure the effective governance of information security activities at R3, such that:

All members of the organisation understand their information security responsibilities.

An effective security management program appropriately directs company resources to protect information assets and address current and emerging information security (cyber) risks.

 

### Physical Security

The purpose for this policy is to establish the minimum requirements for the physical security of R3’s Corda Network systems and facilities. Failure to comply with this policy may expose the Foundation to loss of intellectual property or other confidential information or disruption of Foundation operated services.

 

### Supplier Management

Use of external suppliers or outsourcing arrangements can deliver commercial benefits in the form of reduced costs, greater focus on core business and access to superior external skills or resources. This policy mandates the assessment and management of information security risks associated with that process.

 

### Updates and Patching

This policy applies to R3 for updating software components which have already been deployed onto Corda Network infrastructure. R3’s operations team is responsible for monitoring the release of updates to third-party components, including operating systems, middleware and monitoring applications. The operations team is also responsible for monitoring the performance of hardware infrastructure and determining where any changes (e.g. to scale up a virtual machine's cores / memory) are required to deliver optimum performance of the network. Updates may also be triggered by the identification of vulnerabilities in Corda, it's dependencies, or the underlying infrastructure platform. 
