|Corda Network Foundation|[Document history]({{ site.github.repository_url }}/blame/master/{{page.path}})|

 Minutes of the Board Meeting of 13 February 2020
 ================================================

 Attendance
 ----------

 Name                  | Organisation  | Status
 ------------------------------------------------
 Andrei Ilchenko       | ING           | Attended
 Masayuki Miyashita    | SMBC          | Attended
 Markus Tradt          | B3i           | Attended
 Greg Crow             | AXA XL        | Attended
 Alain Verschueren     | BNP Paribas   | Attended
 Joshua Kroeker        | HSBC          | Attended
 Chris Madsen          | Aegon         | Attended
 James Carlyle         | R3            | Attended
 Carolyne Quinn        | R3            | Attended
 Jason Rozovsky        | R3            | Attended (as secretary)


 Minutes
 -------
 1. CQ explained the difference between PTOU (participant terms of use) and IGTOU (inter-group terms of use). PTOU will be 
 limited to single BN (business network). IGTOU will allow access to multiple applications. CQ to draw up diagram and 
 circulate to participants.
 2. In response, JK explained that flexibility is important to make the Corda node useful to widest number of users and 
 applications. AV : this means that STOU (sponsored terms of use) is not destined for corporates. CQ confirmed it is 
 aimed at BN with large number of single-app customers.
 3. AI asked if it was possible to switch from STOU to PTOU or IGTOU? CQ confirmed this was possible.
 4. JC gave the update that CNF Directors should be aware that legal conversations with BNO (business network operators) 
 are proving to be lengthy.
 5. AV asked whether the Foundation maps liability? JR: provided an update on status on liability assessment. 
 First legal work-stream looks at Foundation’s liability. Second looks at regulatory concerns, especially of the notary. 
 JC took the action to set up session to look at liability in more detail. AV said that Directors were caught between 
 3 parties; what should they do? CM, MT supported the need for a session.
 6. CQ provided a walk-through of current production participants and the BN pipeline, and commented that this had been 
 achieved with no marketing. The Corda ecosystem is offered a choice; many are choosing CN because 1) there is no need to run 
 their own infrastructure 2) they want to open the possibility of interoperability. IV asked how Directors could find 
 out about these opportunities? CQ directed him to marketplace.r3.com
 7. JK stated the 2 reasons for CNF: to provide a commercial notary service and to provide interoperability between 
 networks. Some telecoms are saying they want to run the infrastructure. Maybe SWIFT or regulators would like to run some 
 notaries. There would be an impact on liability. AV said that Notary providers would need to be audited; who would do 
 this and how would this change the liability? JC said there was a need a legal design presented as a package. JC also 
 said there was an original intention to provide a competitive playing field for notaries. AV expressed concern about the 
 number of agreements which would be needed. 
 8. MT asked if can we copy the liability model of cloud providers: it's clear that large organisations are able to 
 accept limited liability.
 9. CQ said that transaction volumes do not challenge current notary setup. JC argued that providing a choice limits the 
 Foundation's liability, because customers have a choice and would explicitly be choosing a high-SLA or low-SLA Notary. 
 CQ added that BNO have always had a choice of running their own notary.
 10. CQ said that customers are not being charged for UAT, but she wants to start charging for transactions on the same 
 basis as Production. She also announced we will start charging for SSZ.
 11. JK asked if SSZ costs have been socialised and what the feedback was. CQ said there was no negative feedback. 
 12. CQ said the CNF had previously stated it would run elections at the end of March. MT suggested delaying elections 
 by 3 months. The goal is to get more participants available to vote. Also, CQ would prefer to have further negotiations 
 on the cost model with R3. CQ felt this had low reputational risk, since there hadn't been a lot of external communication 
 for elections. JK asked what were the mechanics of the vote. MT said CNF should give BNO warning of the vote, the 
 mechanics, nominations. AV asked about rules for diversity: whether the location of Director was based on the person or 
 office/headquarters location. CQ gave a brief update on diversity by industry.
 14. AV asked for an update on production nodes.
 15. CQ presented a review of the top three operational risks for CN. 1) Notary is unavailable. 2) Notary does not 
 reflect the truth. 3) Certificates are issued incorrectly. There followed a discussion of testing, capacity planning and 
 access controls. 2-day SLA for certificate issuance. New website puts more control in hands of customer; self select 
 entity name. 4-eyes check remains with Network operations team.
 16. AV asked if apart from E+O insurance, do we need any other? CQ said we also have D+O insurance. 

 Actions
 -------
 1. CQ to provide diagram of different legal agreements and their relationships. 
 2. JC/JR to set up session to explore liability in more detail.

 END
