# About the Foundation 

Corda Network Foundation (the Foundation) is a member-led Dutch not-for-profit, or Stichting, set up to govern Corda Network in December 2018. 

Participants of Corda Network (anyone with a node on the network) may vote for, and stand for the Foundation’s Board of Directors. As outlined in the Articles of Association, 9 of the 11 Board of Directors are Participants (the remaining 2 are appointed by R3, who set up the network). Since it has a staggered board, the next democratic election for 4 seats will take place in June 2021, building on a previous election for all seats in 2020.

As of April 2021, a key change is that the Foundation no longer is responsible for the operation of Network Services to participants of Corda Network. Going forward, R3 will operate the Corda Network and be responsible to participants for service delivery, as well as be the legal contracting party. This change is based on customer feedback over the last 2 years. However, the Foundation will retain an important role with governing the network, including on the points of public key infrastructure, identity and enabling interoperability and good service provision. 

This includes:

- Safeguarding the Corda Network Trust Root – a long-term cryptographic key which all the identity of participants on Corda Network link back to, as their source; 

- Ensuring a robust identity structure on Corda Network through policies which flow down to participants through a simple rulebook; 

- Providing discretional guidelines and best practices to would-be participants on the network, to enable interoperability between CorDapps, and support third party service operators (such as notaries) on the network.

The Foundation’s constitution is defined in a set of Articles of Association and By-laws found on this website.




## Contacting the Foundation


### 1 Email

Please use this email address:
> info@corda.network. 


### 2 Mailing Address

The Foundation's mailing address is:

> Corda Network Foundation Stichting
>
> Johan Huizingalaan 763A
>
> 1066 VH
>
> Amsterdam
>
> Netherlands
