# Corda Network Foundation Board

The first Corda Network Foundation's Governing Board was voted in by the Participants of Corda Network in June 2020, replacing the 15-month Transition Board. 
The next election will take place in June 2021.

## Corda Network Foundation Governing Board 

The Corda Network Foundation's Governing Board was elected in June 2020. The Board includes 9 senior figures from external companies across financial services as well as representatives from blockchain technology companies building on Corda. 

1. Nicholas Barnes, Manager, Marco Polo Business Network, TradeIX

2. Richard Crook, Director, Cordite Society Limited 

3. Robert Crozier, Chief Architect Customer Platforms & Head of Global Blockchain Centre of Competence, Allianz Technology

4. Hans Huber, DLT Trade Finance Innovation Project Manager, Commerzbank

5. Richard Phipps, Senior Project & Delivery Lead, Underwriting, Swiss Re

6. Olivier Relandeau, DLT Product Manager, Standard Chartered Bank 

7. Aaron Seabrook, Chief Operating Officer, Contour

8. Alessandro Spadoni, Chief Architect & Platform Fluidity Product Owner, B3i

9. Yong Xia, China Chief Architect, HSBC


In addition, the board has two directors employed by R3: 

10. Charley Cooper (replacing James Carlyle) and

11. Carolyne Quinn.

To implement a staggered Board design during the first steady-state seating, three of the nine Directors have been appointed for

- a duration of one year

- two years, and

- three years.

There will subsequently be three seats up for election each year. Appointments to the rotating Board seats will be for three-year terms. Any seats vacated mid-term will also be elected at the same time. R3 may not put forward candidates for the nine rotating seats, and these may not be held by R3 employees.



## Corda Network Foundation Transition Board 

The Corda Network Foundation's Transition Board governed from April 2019 to June 2020. 

1. Andrei Ilchenko: Head of IT Wholesale Banking Channels, ING, Europe
2. Alain Verschueren: Head of Innovation & DLT, Trade Finance Competence Centre, BNP Paribas, Europe
3. Masayuki Miyashita: Head of Structured Trade Group, Global Trade Finance Department,Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Asia
4. Yong Xia, Chief Architect, China, HSBC. Yong was nominated by HSBC to replace Joshua Kroeker on 8th May 2020 for the remainding sitting of the Board. Joshua Kroeker was Director, Blockchain Lead for Global Commercial Banking, HSBC, Asia and has moved to Contour as Chief Product Officer.
5. Andrew Speers: Director, Product and Innovation, NatWest, Europe
6. Jordane Rollin: Executive Director & Head, Digital Transformation, Trade Finance Global Products, Standard Chartered, Asia
7. Alessandro Spadoni, Chief Architect, B3i. Alessandro was nominated by B3i to replace Markus Tradt, Chief Technology Officer, who left B3i on 1st May 2020 to return to Munich Re.
8. Greg Crow: Global Head of Architecture, AXA XL, Europe
9. Chris Madsen, Head of Global Underwriting Center, Aegon, Europe - Chris was nominated by B3i and voted in by the Board, during a Mandatory Governance Event in July 2019 as a replacement for Edwin Oversteeg, who resigned for personal reasons. 

In addition, the board had two directors employed by R3: 
10. James Carlyle
11. Carolyne Quinn.


## Criteria and Context for Transition Board (updated 2019-01-25)

1. The Corda Network Foundation wishes for its Transition Board to be set up soon, so transition to governance by the Foundation (and independence from R3) can commence. (This is a temporary board lasting 1 year.) 

2. The first 3 Business Networks with at least 3 nodes (from separate corporate groups) live on Corda Network (production) are eligible to nominate 3 x Transition Board directors.  How these are picked is up to the Business Networks themselves, and should be done in a fair and transparent manner. (Nominated members should be communicated through R3 to the Foundation, or directly to info@corda.network) 

3. No more than 1 person representing a single corporate group can join the Transition Board.

4. The Foundation will also consider Business Networks with 3 x participants with nodes live on UAT, for Transition Board directorship (i.e., you don't have to be live on Corda Network production). However, these nodes should also be in their production plans (in other words: those who create a node for UAT-only will not be considered eligible). In addition, full members will be prioritised. 

5. Where more than 3 Business Networks qualify (as per #2 and #4), Transition Board members will be selected by the Foundation, based on:
    * Whether they have nodes live on CN production (or at least, UAT). This will be checked by R3’s doorman.
    * Whether they are advanced in their plans to move onto Corda Network (production)
    * That they have the right legal agreements in place with R3 / the Foundation. For UAT, this will typically involve the PTOU, and any Corda Enterprise license / pricing agreement for UAT – but relationship managers will confirm with the Business Networks.

6. We expect Director confirmation to take place by mid-February, and for the Transition Board to be in place (and commence operations) soon after that.

7. Both Business Network Operators and their end-participants are eligible, so long as they meet the criteria stipulated above. However, the latter are our preference to be on the Board, since they are the ‘users’ of it.

## Transition Board --> Steady State Board

During the Transition Board seating, there will be a vote amongst all Corda Network participants, for Board Directors for the steady-state board.

For the first election only for the steady-state board, of the nine vacant seats:
* three will be for a duration of one year
* three for two years, and 
* three for three years. 

This will introduce a staggered board, so there is greater continuity at the end of each term. Candidates with the most 
votes will fill the three-year seats first, followed by two-year and then one-year seats. In all other respects, the 
first election will follow the steady state process.
