# Contracting Model

To join Corda Network, you need to sign a Terms of Use (legal agreement). There are two contracting models for you to choose from, _typically_ depending on whether you are a **user** of a Corda application (CorDapp), or are building and running a Corda application (sometimes known as a 'Business Network Operator').

## Building and/or running a Corda application

If you are building and/or running a Corda application, you may want to go for the Corda Network **Sponsoring Participant** Terms of Use, which will cover you and any other entities within or outside of your group company to join Corda Network, to use your CorDapp _only_ on Corda Network. These are also known as _sponsees_. There will be some terms from this agreement that you will need to flow down to your sponsees. You will take responsibility for all sponsee nodes’ behaviour on the network, pay all relevant Corda Network fees for sponsees, provide support to them, and submit requests for network identities to R3 on their behalf. 

## Using a Corda application

If you are a user of a CorDapp (or are a Business Network Operator running a CorDapp but don't want to be a Sponsor - as outlined above), the Corda Network **Intergroup** Terms of Use will be suitable for you. You will have a contract with R3, will pay Network fees for your node, and interact directly with R3 for support and queries.

If you are using a CorDapp where the BNO provides sponsorship onto Corda Network, you may avoid signing the Terms of Use with R3, but sign only with the BNO instead. Discuss with your contact in the BNO (or we can introduce you) to explore if joining Corda Network as a sponsee is an option.

## Pricing

Please contact your R3 Account Manager for more information on available pricing options.
