# Network Choice

For anyone running a Corda application, you can choose to use one of the three network choices – MainNet, a Segregated Network - off Corda Network, but which uses the same Trust Root; and a Private Network - using Corda Enterprise Network Manager, with a *separate* Trust Root.

## MainNet

A shared, permissioned, global network – which business networks may join and operate within. Part of the original design of Corda, its envisioned as an internet of Corda nodes,’ with nodes transacting seamlessly across many CorDapps and business networks. All Corda applications transactions will be notarised by the non-validating notary of the MainNet.

## Segregated Network

A partitioned sub-network off the Corda Network mainnet, which enables membership privacy (only members of the segregated network are visible to each other) and complete control over its own software upgrade schedule. It uses the same Trust Root as Corda Network, but in all other respects is separate (has own notary, network map, network parameters). Participants using a Segregated Network must run their own notary. 

There is an annual cost for a Segregated Network (including a Segregated network in both Production and Pre-Production networks). Please contact info@corda.network or your R3 account manager for more information on pricing.

Segregated Networks are built by the Network Operations Engineering Team once the Participant Terms of Use have been signed. There is a 3-week build process for a new Segregated Network, and another 3-week notary onboarding process if you run your own notary. To request a Segregated Network, please fill in the [Segregated Network Request Form](https://github.com/corda-network/corda-network.github.io/blob/master/assets/R3_Segregated%20Network%20Requirements%20Form.docx), and follow the instructions in the document.

## Private Networks

A business network operating and being governed entirely independently, using the Corda Enterprise Network Manager software. The private network's operator can control the location and operations of all its services and infrastructure, as well as running its own Service Level Agreements. The private network operator would need to build and maintain their own Trust Root.

For more information on how to choose between these options, please reference this 12-page paper:

[Link to paper - attached PDF](https://github.com/corda-network/corda-network.github.io/blob/master/assets/Corda%20Networks%20-%20guiding%20note_Final.pdf)
