# Offboarding Workflow


If you wish to remove your nodes from Corda Network, you have 3 options to do so:

**Option 1: Temporary Suspension from Corda Network**

If you do not intend for the network certificate to be dormant permanently but want to temporarily hide the node from the network map, you may shut down the node and it will be hidden from the network map after 30 days, and once you restart the node it will show up on the network map automatically. You can read more about this feature *(**eventHorizon**)* on the [Corda Documentation Site](https://docs.corda.net/docs/corda-enterprise/4.8/network/network-reqs.html#corda-network-parameters).

**Option 2: Revocation of Corda Network node certificate(s)**

If you foresee that your Corda Network X.509 certificate(s) will not be used permanently or will not re-join in the long-run, you may submit a request to revoke the certificate. You should ensure that all assets and data have been retrieved from the nodes associated with these certificates beforehand, as you will not be able to access them after the nodes are revoked. 

Here are the steps you need to take if you want to request revocation of one of your network certificates without terminating your Corda Network agreement.

**Step 1: Raise a Support ticket**

Submit a [Task](https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/52/create/116) ticket on the Corda Network Support Portal, following the below instructions. PLEASE SUBMIT ONE REQUEST PER CERTIFICATE TO BE REVOKED. You should submit multiple requests if you need to revoke more than one certificate.

1. **Summary**: Input "Certificate Revocation Request"
2. **Description** (All of the below 4 pieces of information are MANDATORY):

- **X.509 Name**:
- **Business Reason** for revoking the certificate: 
*As certificate revocation is a **irreversible** process, please ensure that you have fully considered the consequeneces before submitting a revocation request. The business reason will be reviewed and prioritised by R3. Acceptable business reasons include: Change of legal entity name, Private key compromised, Lost of certificate, or other business reasons that cannot be achieved without revoking the node's certificate.)*
- **Original CSR Request ID**:
- **Approval**: 
*Certificate revocation should be approved in writing by two officers (usually director-level or above) of the legal owner of the certificate, since it is a final and irrevocable act. If the certificate belongs to your entity, attach email approvals from two directors (or above) from your company; If the certificate belongs to a sponsee entity of you, attach one email approval from a director (or above) of your company and one email approval from a director (or above) of the sponsee's entity.*

**Step 2: Confirmation**

The revocation may take a few days or weeks to process. Once the revocation is complete, the R3 Support Engineer will inform you on the appropriate Task ticket (raised in Step 1) that it is done. The process ends here.

**Option 3: Termination of Corda Network contract**

If you wish for all your nodes to permanently leave Corda Network, you can terminate your Corda Network contract. You should ensure that you have retrieved all assets and data from all your nodes beforehand, as you will not be able to access them after the nodes are revoked. 

All your network certificates will be automatically revoked once your contract termination has been duly signed. Unused node and transaction quota that you paid for will not be refunded. Please speak to your R3 Account Manager if you want to terminate your Corda Network contract.
