# Admissions Criteria

## 1.1. Introduction

*Please note: this is not a guide to onboarding, but the rules that underpin the process. If you wish to see the onboarding process for Corda Network, please refer to the [process guide](https://corda.network/joining-corda-network/onboarding-workflow) online, which may change from time to time. This should be read together with this Rulebook.*

Any legal entity who wishes to use Corda Network must first create a node (a java virtual machine run-time environment that hosts Corda services and CorDapps), then obtain a Participation Certificate, which will give their node access to the Network. Once a legal entity obtains a Corda Network Participant Certificate, it becomes a “Corda Network Participant” and it uses a “Corda Network Node.”

There are two kinds of Corda Network Participants: Participants (who have legal contracts with R3) and Sponsored Participants (who have access to Corda Network via a Participant’s legal contract).

Requests for all Participation Certificates will always come through Participants; as such, Sponsored Participants will not request Certificates directly from R3, but via the sponsoring Participant whose legal contract allows them to access the Network.

R3’s provision of access to the Corda Network shall not be considered as a substitute for a Participant's own “Know Your Customer” procedures. 




## 1.2. Policy

Each Participant Certificate shall be issued only to legal entities, and not individuals. The following information must be provided by all Participants (either for themselves or on behalf of Sponsored Participants) upon request, as part of the network onboarding process:
- Legal Entity name
- Legal Entity Address
- Contact Name
- Contact Email Address
- Contact Phone Number
- Unique Legal Entity Identifier – (LEI by GLEIF, EIN, CRN, etc.)
- Website Domain (Optional)

R3 has established a sanction review process for all entities “R3’s sanctions screening process”. Entities that fail R3’s sanctions screening process will not be allowed to receive a Participation Certificate.

The sanction lists as of the effective date of this Rulebook are as follows, which may change in R3’s sole discretion in the future. In addition, sanctions reviewed include not only against respective entities but also jusirdictions that such entities may be incorporated in and/or operate out of:

United Kingdom Her Majesty’s Treasury Sanctions, Office of Foreign Assets Control Non-Specially Designated National Entities, Office of Foreign Assets Control Sanctions, Office of Foreign Assets Control Specially Designated Nationals, United Nations Consolidated List, Bureau of Industry and Security, Excluded Parties List System, Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Consolidated List—Canada, Consolidated list of Persons, Groups and Entities subject to EU Financial Sanctions, Section 311 of the USA Patriot Act, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) Unauthorized Banking List.

Participants that enter into a Sponsored Participant Terms of Use with R3 should not rely on R3’s sanctions screening process with respect to their Sponsored Participants. Sponsoring Participants are responsible for reasonably assuring themselves as to and verifying the identity of Sponsored Participants, and conducting such due diligence and sanctions checks as necessary to ensure that all such entities meet tolerance standards as required by the applicable Business Network.




