# Corda Network Production 

Corda Network has its own [Trust Root](https://corda.network/corda-network-foundation/trust-root) -- the single, long-term cryptographic key which all the certificates on the Network root back to, and is the basis of trust in the provenance of data, recognised by  participants. For Corda Network, this is offline and secured in custody by the Corda Network Foundation.


## Identity Manager

The Identity Manager admits new participants onto Corda Network. The service receives certificate signing requests (CSRs) from prospective network participants (sometimes via a [Sponsor](https://corda.network/joining-corda-network/contracting-model)) and reviews the information submitted. 

A digitally signed participation certificate (based on the Corda Network Trust Root) is returned if:

* The participant meets the requirements specified in the Corda Network Rulebook;
* The participant agrees to Corda Network participant terms of use.

The Corda Network node can then use the participation certificate to register itself with the Network Map.


## Network Map

The Network Map accepts digitally signed documents describing network routing and identifying information from 
nodes, based on the participation certificates signed by the Identity Manager, and makes this information available to all 
Corda Network nodes.


## Notary

Corda design separates correctness consensus from uniqueness consensus, and the latter is provided by one or more Notaries. The Notary will digitally sign a transaction presented to it, provided no transaction referring to 
any of the same inputs has been previously signed by the Notary, and the transaction timestamp is within bounds. 

Business network operators and network participants may choose to enter into legal agreements which rely on the presence 
of such digital signatures when determining whether a transaction to which they are party, or upon the details of which they 
otherwise rely, is to be treated as 'confirmed' in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement. 


## Support 

Support is provided to participants and business network operators to manage and resolve inquiries and incidents 
relating to the Identity Manager, Network Map and Notary.

If you have questions about any of the above, and can't find your answer on this site, [contact us](https://corda.network/about/contact)!
