# Network Services Explained

- [1. I’m not an Enterprise customer. Am I still entitled to Support?](#1-im-not-an-enterprise-customer-am-i-still-entitled-to-support)
- [2. At which point am I entitled to Corda Network Support?](#2-at-which-point-am-I-entitled-to-corda-network-support)
- [3. How do I request Support?](#3-how-do-i-request-support)
- [4. Can I control the location of my infrastructure?](#4-can-i-control-the-location-of-my-infrastructure)
- [5. What kind of notary does the network have?](#5-what-kind-of-notary-does-the-network-have)
- [6. What information does Corda Network notary have access to?](#6-what-information-does-corda-network-notary-have-access-to)
- [7. Can R3 run a notary for me, on Corda Network?](#7-can-r3-run-a-notary-for-me-on-corda-network)
- [8. Is there a plan to introduce more notaries to Corda Network?](#8-is-there-a-plan-to-introduce-more-notaries-to-corda-network)
- [9. Do I have to specify which notary I want to use?](#9-do-i-have-to-specify-which-notary-i-want-to-use)
- [10. What is the difference between a signing event and notary transaction?](#10-what-is-the-difference-between-a-signing-event-and-notary-transaction)
- [11. What is the function of the Network Map Server?](#11-what-is-the-function-of-the-network-map-server)
- [12. Who communicates with the Network Map and how?](#12-who-communicates-with-the-network-map-and-how)
- [13. What data is collected by Network Map and is it stored in a database?](#13-what-data-is-collected-by-network-map-and-is-it-stored-in-a-database)
- [14. Does ID Manager and Network Map service need to be highly available in order for a business network to function properly?](#14-does-id-manager-and-network-map-service-need-to-be-highly-available-in-order-for-a-business-network-to-function-properly)


## 1. I’m not an Enterprise customer. Am I still entitled to Support? 

Yes, we have some support available for customers on network-related issues. Please visit the [Support](https://corda.network/support/corda-network-support-service-handbook) section of this website.

## 2. At which point am I entitled to Corda Network Support? 

As soon as a Corda Network node has onboarded, its registered email address is entitled to access Corda Network support portal and receive updates on the state of Corda Network infrastructure via [Statuspage](https://corda-network.statuspage.io/access/login).

## 3. How do I request Support? 

Existing customer can raise either an Incident or a Task ticket via [Corda Network Support Portal](https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7).


## 4. Can I control the location of my infrastructure? 

If you decide to deploy on a Segregated Network then you can control the location of your Notary Service. Other Corda Network services are run by R3.

## 5. What kind of notary does the network have?

It is a highly-available, non-validating notary cluster. It consists of multiple worker nodes that are geographically distributed. For more information about what a notary is, see Corda [docs](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.8/enterprise/notary/ha-notary-service-overview.html) website. 

## 6. What information does Corda Network notary have access to?

Corda Network notary cluster is non-validating. It doesn’t run the verify function, just checks that inputs have not been previously consumed, and that all input states were under its control. 

Below is a summary of what specific transaction components have to be revealed to a non-validating notary:

| TRANSACTION COMPONENTS            | WHAT IS REVEALED |
|-----------------------------------|------------------|
| Input states                      | References only  |
| Output states                     | Hidden           |
| Commands (with signer identities) | Hidden           |
| Attachments                       | Hidden           |
| Time window                       | Visible          |
| Notary identity                   | Visible          |
| Signatures                        | Hidden           |
| Network parameters                | Visible          |

Notaries also record the calling party’s identity: the public key and the X.500 Distinguished Name. More information about notaries can be found [here](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-notaries.html)

## 7. Can R3 run a notary for me, on Corda Network?

Today, all participants on the Corda Network Mainnet share a notary run by R3 and those who want to run their own notary can do so on a Segregated Network. If you are interested in having a dedicated notary run on your behalf on the Mainnet, please contact your R3 Account Manager.

## 8. Is there a plan to introduce more notaries to Corda Network?

Yes. Corda supports more than one notary. There is currently only one notary, but we do want to introduce more notaries in the future.

## 9. Do I have to specify which notary I want to use?

Yes, if your CorDapp is using the Corda Network Mainnet notary cluster, you must ensure it obtains the preferred notary service X.500 name from the CorDapp config file.

CorDapp code should not assume there is only one notary cluster *(e.g. not use “notaries.single”)* nor should it select a notary at random *(e.g. not use “notaries.first”)*.

The functionality of CorDapps using outdated syntax will be impaired in a multi-notary environment, which is why selecting a notary using the notary’s X.500 name is important for future-proofing CorDapps.

## 10. What is the difference between a signing event and notary transaction?  

A Corda [transaction](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-transactions.html) is a proposal to update the ledger, and will involve 2+ parties.  For a ledger update to occur, a digital signature (signing event) is required from each party’s node to agree with the proposed change. Once all signing events have happened, a notary commits the update to the ledger (notarises the transaction). This is the final point in the transaction - the update is now committed to the ledger.


## 11. What is the function of the Network Map Server?

The Network Map is a collection of signed NodeInfo objects. Each NodeInfo is signed by the node it represents and thus cannot be tampered with. It forms the set of reachable nodes in a compatibility zone. The network map server also distributes the parameters file that define values for various settings that all nodes need to agree on to remain in sync.

## 12. Who communicates with the Network Map and how?

Each node periodically polls the network map for deltas/changes that may have occurred. Of course, we don’t want the network map to be a single point of failure, so all of the nodes have a local copy of the NodeInfo objects that they reference in in order to communicate with other nodes.

## 13. What data is collected by Network Map and is it stored in a database?

NodeInfo objects contain:

- Platform Version that the node is referencing. 

- Node Identity (legal name + node issued certificate). 

- Node IP Address. 

NodeInfo objects are stored in the database that is determined at the time the node is installed and configured.


## 14. Does ID Manager and Network Map service need to be highly available in order for a business network to function properly? 

No, Corda nodes will continue to operate if the Identity Manager and/or Network Map services become unavailable. Each node keeps a copy of the nodeInfo files that are distributed to them from the Network Map service when it is running. 
