# For Current Network Participants

- [1. Where can I find maintenance schedule for Corda Network?](#1-where-can-i-find-maintenance-schedule-for-corda-network)
- [2. Can I whitelist Corda Network Infrastructure?](#2-can-i-whitelist-corda-network-infrastructure)
- [3. What is the guidance for IP and port configuration both inbound and outbound that security and network teams should follow to establish operable, yet secure external communications?](#3-what-is-the-guidance-for-ip-and-port-configuration-both-inbound-and-outbound-that-security-and-network-teams-should-follow-to-establish-operable-yet-secure-external-communications?)
- [4. Is there any formal trust attestation available for the Corda Network’s Certificate Authority?](#4-is-there-any-formal-trust-attestation-available-for-the-corda-networks-certificate-authority)
- [5. Once a node leaves the network, what needs to happen to be let back in?](#5-once-a-node-leaves-the-network-what-needs-to-happen-to-be-let-back-in)
- [6. What are the implications of certificate revocation for a customer?](#6-what-are-the-implications-of-certificate-revocation-for-a-customer)
- [7. How can I request my node certificate to be revoked?](#7-how-can-i-request-my-node-certificate-to-be-revoked)


## 1. Where can I find maintenance schedule for Corda Network? 

Corda Network maintenance schedule is published on our [StatusPage](https://corda-network.statuspage.io/access/login). Please raise a ticket via [Corda Network Support Portal](https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7) to request access or to update subscribers who receive maintenance alerts.

## 2. Can I whitelist Corda Network Infrastructure?

Corda Network infrastructure can be whitelisted using FQDN names but not IP addresses. As Corda Network infrastructure is deployed on Cloud we don’t have 100% ownership of the Public IPs.

In the future, Corda Network improvements will likely result in our Public IPs changing and that would negatively impact participants who would have to update their IP whitelisting rules. To avoid this we recommend using FQDN addresses of Network Map, Notary and Identity Manager services instead.

For more information on whitelisting please contact your R3 Account Manager or Support.

## 3. What is the guidance for IP and port configuration both inbound and outbound that security and network teams should follow to establish operable, yet secure external communications?

Please visit [docs.corda](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.8/enterprise/node/corda-firewall-configuration-file.html) for further guidance.

## 4. Is there any formal trust attestation available for the Corda Network’s Certificate Authority?

The entirety of the material that can be provided to network participants with regards to where our certificate and trust attestation comes from is available at https://trust.corda.network/. It is the responsibility of each network participant to determine from the documentation at the URL above, whether the assurance levels provided by the network trust root are sufficient.

## 5. Once a node leaves the network, what needs to happen to be let back in? 

The node will need to go through the same onboarding process as defined by the network.

## 6. What are the implications of certificate revocation for a customer? 

The implication of node certificate revocation is that while you are still able to see and retrieve any of your assets and transaction history, the nodes associated with revoked certificates cannot communicate with Corda Network infrastructure or other peers as their TLS connections will be blocked.

## 7. How can I request my node certificate to be revoked?
Please follow the steps outlined on the offboarding workflow [page](https://corda.network/joining-corda-network/offboarding-workflow).
