# Minutes of the Board Meeting of 6 December 2019

## Minutes

1. Sponsor Participant Terms of Use (PTOU) sent to board for review and agreement.
2. Carolyne clarified 2 ways to join Corda Network(CN): directly, contract with Foundation - billed directly.
Alternatively join as a sponsee, via a sponsor. HQLAx is having participants join directly. We have come to a point 
where we have 2 patterns /options. Versions signed till now have been different but now we have standardised. It is not 
possible to be both a sponsored and direct participant, so there is no danger of having competing terms for the same 
entity, although of course the sponsor may impose additional terms on their sponsees.
3. James reiterated that the network cannot have different agreements for each participant - there must be a level playing 
field. Any improvements or clarification for wording of PTOU should be applied for all.
4. James explained the difference between operating a node and controlling the private keys for it. ACTION: Need to 
explain on website difference between operation and control. 
5. Carolyne said the soft launch on 16th December will be used by Voltron. Initial participants will be direct.
6. Alain emphasised the need to exaggerate the distinction between R3 and Foundation; for example, the Foundation should 
send out the PTOU, not R3, until the website is available. Remove R3 branding from Foundation slides.
7. James said a SSZ was not subject to a separate agreement.
8. Upgrade from Sponsored to Direct requires termination of Sponsor agreement. ACTION: Need to add termination clause 
in Sponsor agreement.
9. As a corporate group (e.g. a multinational), can the group be a sponsor? Yes.
10. Andrew said that segregated subzone pricing is a good idea. 10K is a good expense. ACTION: Ensure a disclaimer 
exists: “unless additional costs are incurred”. Greg asked about price SSZ to discourage? e.g. 100K. James said SSZs 
already come with additional obligations - e.g. need to run own notary. Adding a notary to the zone whitelist requires 
the Foundation to put in place audit checks, and test. Insurwave is running its own notary in a SSZ since March 2019.
11. James reported notary volumes of 300K in production and 3M in pre-production, and explained these were not reflected 
in revenue figures because the notary fee model allows for a large band of per-participant free notary requests.
12. There was a discussion of the financial model at the end of 2019 compared to that at the end of 2018. Main changes : 
joining fees, reduction in FTE, income from trials. How were the trials costs 
calculated? Based on UAT infrastructure and operations model instead. Andrew asked how formal the agreement on trial 
revenue was. ACTION: circulate R3 agreement to pay for trials.
13. Andrew asked whether we do any stress testing of numbers and infrastructure costs? For example if a single project 
drives a significant increase. James said the Operator is hiring a service manager, and there had been no stress testing 
beyond notary testing. An early action for the service manager will be to undertake capacity planning.
14. Chris asked what is the conversion rate from pre-production to production. Need 66% next year to stay on track for 
transaction revenue. James replied that some trial-related pre-production traffic was not close to production, but for 
projects in a genuine pre-production test phase, the conversion rate was high.
15. ACTION: Circulate pipeline transaction forecasts to Board every 3 months, aligned to R3 Corda Enterprise forecasts.
16. Markus asked if the Foundation needs to publish accounts? Foundation will have accounts prepared and submitted by 
an accountant, but turnover is lower than limit required for formal audit.
17. Chris asked for the definition of a billable notary request? Should insurance pay more per transaction than cash 
management (for comparatively fewer transactions)? James said we only recognise technical notarisation requests. 
18. Andrew requested a summary of each project currently live and in the pipeline, cognizant of the admin impact. Help 
understand costs and infrastructure. 1-paragraph is fine. 
19. Alain asked if anyone is using Corda 4.3 account functionality. Take offline.
20. Have we matched network SLAs against regulatory requirements? No, but we are open to feedback. e.g. GrowSuper 
required “more than 99%”, already incorporated. No immediate action required. Andrei requested an improvement of the 
SLA for the notary and the network services from >99% to at least >99.9, with the expectation of further improvement.
21. Do we support voting via a proxy? Agreed that participants may vote via a proxy (their sponsor), but the sponsor must 
notify participants that they have a vote, or they can vote directly.
22. There was a discussion about the election next March for the first business-as-usual board directors. We will look again at 
geographic diversity, since judging diversity based on the location of headquarters rather than commercial activity will 
not ensure practical diversity. Voting preferred for production participants, not pre-production. This is per current 
governance guidelines. Alain stated that governance (i.e. board seats) should be limited to participants, not 
Business Network Operators. Andrei agreed and emphasised the need to encourage ability to host your own node. 
Markus said that Business Network Operators have more knowledge, might be able to make better decisions.
23. Follow up on operational risks in at next board meeting. Need to prepare governance for next board. Extend 
time to more than 2 hours.
24. Need to work up governance proposals in December. Next board meeting at the end of January or beginning of February, 
in a US-friendly timezone.

## Actions

1. Foundation should send out the PTOU, not R3, until the website is available. 
2. Remove R3 branding from Foundation slides.
3. Need to explain on website difference between operation and control. 
4. Need to add termination clause in Sponsor agreement.
5. Ensure a disclaimer exists for SSZ pricing: “unless additional costs are incurred”.
6. Send out a clean copy of the Excel financial model.
7. Circulate R3 agreement to pay for trials.
8. Circulate pipeline transaction forecasts to Board every 3 months, aligned to R3 Corda Enterprise forecasts.
9. Circulate accountant-prepared accounts to Board when ready in January 2020, in a formal governance event.
10. Circulate summary of projects currently live and in pipeline.

END
