## Minutes - Transition Board Meeting 7, 19th June 2020

### Attendance

Andrei Ilchenko - ING

Miyashyita Masayuki - SMBC

Yong Xia - HSBC

Alessandro Spadoni  - B3i

James Carlyle -  R3 

Carolyne Quinn -  R3

Blanche Crowe – R3 (Board Secretary)

**Apologies**

Alain Verschueren – BNP Paribas

Greg Crow - AXA XL

Chris Madsen - Aegon

**Absent**

Andrew Speers - Commonwealth Bank

Jordane Rollin – Standard Chartered

### Minutes 

1.	CQ mentions the antitrust guidelines.

2.	CQ asks the board for feedback on issues that they have found difficult to get through the legal team and onto the network.  Does the current onboarding model need tweaking?

3.	AV (sent apologies) emailed his legal team’s feedback. Liability was the main issue for his bank.  If a node on the network causes damage to some part of the network or to another participant. He has asked for a mutual cap (200% on the fees paid) on liability to be made. An example of harm being caused could be spamming another participant or causing the notary to stop working.   The legal team agree that the owner is responsible for their node’s actions if the circumstances are clearly defined.

4.	YX has spoken to his project team, and there have been no blockers.  They understand the process takes time.   JC adds it is important to recognise the difference between business as usual process and blockage.

5.	CQ suggests having a subcommittee, to review legal changes every month. AI and AS would like to nominate their legal counsel to review.  JC adds that the board would still need to ultimately decide on any changes made. 

6.	AI's outstanding concerns are on the service legal agreement.  On clause 3.6, they want a baseline agreed in the terms of use.  On clause 6.2 (monitoring an audit) they want an addition to that clause, providing reasonable grounds for data collection. On clause 11 (limitation of liability) they want to steer clear of being accountable for indirect loss.  Lastly, they want the participate to have the right to terminate agreement, under certain conditions. 

7.	CQ responds that the liability concerns would need to be discussed in more detail with external council.  Other concerns are not material changes but we would need to change our standard agreement going forward. 

8.	MM is concerned the documentation process is time consuming.  Could CNF reduce the need to sign multiple contacts with many parties. 

9.	JC agrees there needs to be improvements to the process.  Simple contracts with a small number of counterparties for a large organisation is important.  We do not want to rule out the possibility of direct contracts with the foundation if someone wants to.   Structure needs to be easy to explain and legally aligned. 

10.	MM wants to know if the CNF has the resources to go through all contracts.  CQ replies that they do not. 

11.	AI adds that being able to deal with CNF directly is appealing.  AS agrees helping to remove barriers in adoption, is core to our strategy.

12.	JC adds if we can think of CNF as a governance and standard setting organisation, which has control.  It is not set up to act contractually and negotiate contracts.  AS agrees. 

13.	CQ says that everyone would have received an email from Clifford Chance (our external counsel).  Within Dutch law, if any changes to Articles of Association and By-Laws are being made, we need remote attestation.   This involves a 10min video call done by Clifford Chance where you need to sign a draft resolution, which is to approve the changes already approved by email. 

14.	CQ explains there are 4/14 candidates running for election for the 9 board seats, who may not have a live node by 23rd June 2020.   We would like to vote on lifting this deadline.  This will only apply in this board election and not in future elections. CQ wanted to vote today on the criterion for Candidate Directors on the new Board needing to have a live node on the network – but the Board requires 8 for a quorum, while there are only 6 in attendance. JC suggests we take the vote offline, explaining the reason for the vote in detail, in an email. 


15.	AI mentions this is the last board meeting with this board.  JC thanks the board for their contribution for the last 15 months.   


### Actions

1.	CQ & JC to set up a monthly process of gathering feedback on legal documentation.  Working with external council and then publish an updated standard.
2.	CQ to contact Clifford Chance regarding email to YX. Name needs to be changed. 
3.	CQ to email the board on voting to lift the rule on all election candidates needing to have a live node by 23rd June 2020. 
 
